README.md, before:

# NAME

App::TinyMojo - URL shortener application

# SYNOPSIS

Small proof of concept [Mojolicious](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious) app for URL shortening.

The approach taken for the shortening relies entirely on the auto\_increment
primary key on the database backend, which avoids all kinds of messy queries
during shortening or lookup.

It also avoids sequentiality on the generated URLs by using [Crypt::Skip32](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skip32).

## CONFIGURATION

All configuration is done through the default [Mojolicious::Plugin::Config](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious::Plugin::Config) plugin,
which you can see on the `app-tiny_mojo.conf` file.

There you can set the encryption key (10 bytes), along with the database settings.

### Example configuration

    {
        # Database configuration
        database => {
            dsn      => "dbi:mysql:dbname=tinymojo",
            username => "tinymojo",
            password => "tinymojo",
        },

        # Session encryption secret
        secrets => [
            'heregoesyoursecret'
        ],

        # Block size for Skip32 or Skipjack is 10 bytes
        crypt_key => '1234567890',
        
        # Some site vars
        language => 'en',
        site_name => 'TinyMojo',
        site_mission => 'Short URLs made simple.',

        # Allow non-logged-in users to shorten URLs
        allow_anonymous_shorten => 1, 

        # Enable visitor tracking
        track_visits => 1,
    };

# SHORTENING METHOD

The shortening works like follows:

- Insert to database, and retrieve the auto\_increment $id
- Encrypt the id using [Crypt::Skip32](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skip32)

    This assumes 32 bit ints as IDs, but you can switch to 64 bits and [Crypt::Skipjack](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skipjack).

- Apply a naive base change using a hardcoded dictionary of URL-friendly characters

The lookup of shortened URLs is prety straight forward given the above method.

# DATABASE

The database only requires two tables: _url_ and _user_

### URL table

    CREATE TABLE url (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      longurl varchar(4096),
      user_id int not null default 0
    );

### User table

    CREATE TABLE `user` (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      login varchar(255) not null,
      password varchar(512),
      admin bool not null default 0,
    );

### Tracking table

    CREATE TABLE `redirect` (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      url_id int not null,
      time timestamp not null default current_timestamp,
      visitor_ip varchar(39) not null,
      visitor_forwarded_for varchar(255) default null,
      visitor_uuid varchar(100) default null,
      visitor_ua varchar(1024) default null,
    )

# CAVEATS

All of them. This is just a proof of concept :)

Do not use on the wild under any circumstances.. it does not check pretty much anything.

Commit message:

Add docs about Docker files

README.md, after:

# NAME

App::TinyMojo - URL shortener application

# SYNOPSIS

Small proof of concept [Mojolicious](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious) app for URL shortening.

The approach taken for the shortening relies entirely on the auto\_increment
primary key on the database backend, which avoids all kinds of messy queries
during shortening or lookup.

It also avoids sequentiality on the generated URLs by using [Crypt::Skip32](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skip32).

## DOCKER DEPLOY

Docker files are provided to bootstrap a working Tinymojo, including an image for
the webapp that will run on hypnotoad, and a separate instance for the database,
initialized with empty tables and a _admin_/_password_ user.

You can manage it via `docker-compose` (eg. `docker-compose up -d`).

Remember to update all configuration, session, datbase and user secrets!

## CONFIGURATION

All configuration is done through the default [Mojolicious::Plugin::Config](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious::Plugin::Config) plugin,
which you can see on the `app-tiny_mojo.conf` file.

There you can set the encryption key (10 bytes), along with the database settings.

### Example configuration

    {
        # Database configuration
        database => {
            dsn      => "dbi:mysql:dbname=tinymojo",
            username => "tinymojo",
            password => "tinymojo",
        },

        # Session encryption secret
        secrets => [
            'heregoesyoursecret'
        ],

        # Block size for Skip32 or Skipjack is 10 bytes
        crypt_key => '1234567890',
        
        # Some site vars
        language => 'en',
        site_name => 'TinyMojo',
        site_mission => 'Short URLs made simple.',

        # Allow non-logged-in users to shorten URLs
        allow_anonymous_shorten => 1, 

        # Enable visitor tracking
        track_visits => 1,
    };

# SHORTENING METHOD

The shortening works like follows:

- Insert to database, and retrieve the auto\_increment $id
- Encrypt the id using [Crypt::Skip32](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skip32)

    This assumes 32 bit ints as IDs, but you can switch to 64 bits and [Crypt::Skipjack](https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::Skipjack).

- Apply a naive base change using a hardcoded dictionary of URL-friendly characters

The lookup of shortened URLs is prety straight forward given the above method.

# DATABASE

The database only requires two tables: _url_ and _user_

### URL table

    CREATE TABLE url (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      longurl varchar(4096),
      user_id int not null default 0
    );

### User table

    CREATE TABLE `user` (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      login varchar(255) not null,
      password varchar(512),
      admin bool not null default 0,
    );

### Tracking table

    CREATE TABLE `redirect` (
      id int auto_increment primary key,
      url_id int not null,
      time timestamp not null default current_timestamp,
      visitor_ip varchar(39) not null,
      visitor_forwarded_for varchar(255) default null,
      visitor_uuid varchar(100) default null,
      visitor_ua varchar(1024) default null,
    )

# CAVEATS

All of them. This is just a proof of concept :)

Do not use on the wild under any circumstances.. it does not check pretty much anything.
